Grade Portal Program
Name: Sierra Smith
Date Created: 10/26/2024

Program Description: 

This program is dedicated for instructors who need to input three exam grades for each of their students. 
The first and last name, and all three exams of a student are recorded as a record into a CSV file. 
After all student records are confirmed, the data from the csv file can be read in tabular format.


Functions used in the Program (list in order as they are called):


1. Function Name: main 
 
     Description: First function to be called, contains all functions except for the read_file function.

     Parameters: None  

     Variables: None

     Logical Steps: 

	1. Prints a welcome message indicating that the program is a grade portal.

     Returns: None


2. Function Name: take_input  

     Description: Function that takes input (student data) and stores it into a list. 
	The list gets passed to write_file().

     Parameters: None

     Variables: 


	1. how_many(integer input) - the number of students/ records that the teacher will record
	2. DIV(string) – Divider used for making code look neater.
	3. count(integer) - number that is compared to how_many
	4. data(list) - Contains headers and all first-hand inputted student data.
	5. student(string input) - inputted student information
	6. info(list) - where the formatted (split) student data is stored before being appended to "data"

     Logical Steps: 

	1. Prompt user for number that represents how many student records will be recorded.
	2. Define "count" variable.
	3. Prompt user for student information as outlined in the displayed example.
	4. Define "data" list including pre-entered headers inside of a sub list.
	5. Use "while" loop to compare "how_many" to "count" so that it iterates for the number of times
		defined as "how_many"
	6. Add 1 to count for each iteration of the while loop.
	7. Prompt user for input about a student.
	8. Split the input by a ", " delimiter and add the formatted data to "info"
	9. Append the formatted list to "data"
	10. Reiterate loop until all students have been recorded.
	11. Transfer "data" to write_file().

     Returns: None


3. Function Name: write_file 

     Description: Writes data from "data" list into grades.csv file

     Parameters: data(list) - contains table headers and formatted data of each student

     Variables: 

	1. file(file object) - Opens grades.csv for writing.
	2. writer(file method object) - Enables writing to grades.csv.

     Logical Steps: 

	1. Open grades.csv for writing using "with" keyword, define the expression as "file"
	2. Define a writer for the file, assigned to "writer"
	3. Use "writer" to write multiple rows into the file at a time, using the student data derived
		from "data"
	4. Print success message after "data" has been recorded in grades.csv.

     Returns: None

4. Function Name: read_file 

     Description: Reads the grades.csv file and displays its data in tabular format.

     Parameters: None

     Variables: 

	1. table(list) - Empty list where each row from grades.csv is stored.
	2. file(file object) - Opens grades.csv for reading.
	3. csvreader(file method object) - Enables reading of grades.csv.
	4. t(Texttable object) - Enables the use of the Texttable module.

     Logical Steps: 

	1. Define empty list as "table"
	2. Open the grades.csv file for reading.
	3. Define an object for using the Texttable module.
	4. Use a "for" loop to append each row from the .csv file into the "table" list.
	5. Use "t" to add all the data from "table" to the Texttable object.
	6. Use "t" with the .draw method to print out the student data in tabular format.

     Returns: None



Logical Steps:

	1. Call the main() function.
	2. Call the take_input() function within the main() function.
	3. Call the write_file(data) function within the take_input function.
	4. Call the separate read_file function.

Link to your repository: https://github.com/Cyb3rS1/Importing-Grades


